# Classes of computers

**Personal Computers (PCs)** are intended for use by an individual. Computer
systems in this class are designed for user interactivity; to help a user
operate software. Hardware such as a keyboard, mouse or touch screen is
typically found within a PC system. The software that operates on a PC can
interact with this hardware, receiving inputs and sending outputs if it knows
how to drive that hardware (using a device driver).

**Servers** are intended to process workloads. They are designed for performance
and reliability, featuring greater computer resources (compute, memory and
storage) than expected from a PC. Operating a server is usually done over the
network. A server's workload could include executing multiple software programs
that use the hardware resources of the computer system. For example, a program
that serves web pages would make use of a NIC to serve incoming network
connections.

**Supercomputers** are at the extreme end of computer systems. A design could
host thousands of processors and vast amounts of memory, the peak of modern
computer systems. Used for scientific calculations or intense number crunching,
supercomputers find answers to difficult questions in different disciplines,
which might involve computing an algorithm repeatedly.

(further)  
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_computer]  
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_(computing)]  
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supercomputer]

(insight)  
A computer system hosts computer resources (compute, memory and storage). Where
have you seen a computer system that allows multiple users to login and operate
software? On a PC, only one person might operate the system at a time even if
multiple users have a login session, limited by a single keyboard, mouse or
touch screen. On a server, multiple users can operate software under login
sessions over the network.
